README.md, before:

# ngXpress: The Full-Stack Angular Starter Kit (SSR, Zoneless, Express 5, Prisma, better-auth, Tailwind CSS 4)

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/github/package-json/v/angularcafe/ngxpress)](./package.json)
[![Angular](https://img.shields.io/badge/Angular-20-red.svg)](https://angular.dev/)
[![Express.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Express.js-5.1+-green.svg)](https://expressjs.com/)
[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.0+-blue.svg)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](LICENSE)


![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/angularcafe/ngxpress)
![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/angularcafe/ngxpress)
![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/angularcafe/ngxpress)
![GitHub pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/angularcafe/ngxpress)

Created and maintained by [@immohammadjaved](https://x.com/immohammadjaved)

Think of ngXpress as the Next.js equivalent for Angular — but without the bloat, plugins, or learning curve. Just Angular + Express, the way it should be. ngXpress is a modern Angular 20 + Express 5 starter with SSR, zoneless execution, Prisma ORM, better-auth for authentication, and Tailwind CSS for styling. Build scalable, maintainable full-stack apps with zero boilerplate.

<p align="center">
  <img src="./social-preview.png" alt="ngXpress" width="900"/>
</p>
<p align="center"><i>ngXpress: Modern Angular + Express full-stack starter in action</i></p>

---

## 🚀 What is ngXpress?

ngXpress is a full-stack Angular starter kit designed to give you a seamless, modern development experience. It brings together the best of Angular 20, Express 5, zoneless execution, Prisma ORM, better-auth for authentication, and Tailwind CSS for styling—all in one place. 

With ngXpress, you get:
- A feature-first, modular backend structure for rapid API development
- Out-of-the-box SSR for SEO and performance
- A zoneless Angular setup for maximum speed and simplicity
- Built-in authentication and beautiful, responsive UI with Tailwind CSS
- A codebase that’s easy to extend, maintain, and deploy

Whether you’re building a prototype or a production app, ngXpress gives you the tools and patterns you need—without the overhead or complexity of other frameworks.

---

## ✨ Features

- **Angular 20** with SSR, signals, and standalone components
- **Express 5** REST API, modular by feature
- **Prisma ORM** (SQLite by default, easy to switch)
- **Zoneless**: No zone.js required — enjoy modern, high-performance Angular
- **Authentication-ready** with **better-auth**
- **Tailwind CSS** for modern, responsive UI
- **TypeScript everywhere**
- **Global error handling**
- **Feature-first folder structure**
- **Ready for deployment**

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

**Frontend:** Angular 20 (zoneless), TypeScript, **Tailwind CSS**  
**Backend:** Express 5, Prisma ORM, Node.js, **better-auth**  
**Dev Tools:** Angular CLI, ESLint, Prettier

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

1. **Create your project from this template**
   - Click the green “Use this template” button on GitHub
   - Choose your repo name and create your new project

2. **Clone your new repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/YOUR_REPO_NAME.git
   cd YOUR_REPO_NAME
   ```

3. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

4. **Set up the database**
   ```bash
   npx prisma migrate dev --name init
   ```

5. **Start the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

6. **Open your app**
   - Visit [http://localhost:4200](http://localhost:4200) in your browser
   - API endpoints are available at [http://localhost:4200/api](http://localhost:4200/api)

---

**Tip:**  
- Update the repo URL in step 2 to use your new repo name.  
- This repo is a template. Click 'Use this template' to start your own project instantly!
- The API is served from the same port as your Angular app, making development seamless.

---

## 🏗️ File Structure

### Frontend (Angular)
```
src/app/
  pages/         # Route-based pages (admin, not-found, home, auth)
  components/    # Reusable UI components (admin-sidebar, admin-header, footer, header, pricing, hero, features, faq)
  services/      # Feature services (todos.service.ts)
  models/        # TypeScript interfaces and models (auth.model.ts)
  core/
    guards/      # Route guards (guest.guard.ts, admin.guard.ts)
    services/    # Core services (api.service.ts)
  layouts/       # App layouts
  app.component.ts
  app.routes.ts
  ...
```

### Backend/API (Express)
```
src/api/
  features/
    todos/         # Example feature: Todo REST API (Prisma-powered)
      todos.controller.ts
      todos.routes.ts
  lib/             # Shared backend utilities (Prisma client, auth, etc.)
    prisma.ts
    auth.ts        # better-auth integration
  middlewares/     # Express middlewares (currently empty)
  utils/           # Utility functions (currently empty)
  api.ts           # Main API router
```

---

## 🔗 Import Aliases

ngXpress includes pre-configured TypeScript path mapping for clean, maintainable imports. Instead of relative paths, use these aliases:

```typescript
// ❌ Relative imports (hard to maintain)
import { TodoService } from '../../../services/todo.service';
import { AuthGuard } from '../../core/guards/auth.guard';

// ✅ Alias imports (clean and maintainable)
import { TodoService } from '@services/todo.service';
import { AuthGuard } from '@core/guards/auth.guard';
```

### Available Aliases

| Alias | Path | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `@components/*` | `src/app/components/*` | Reusable UI components |
| `@core/*` | `src/app/core/*` | Core services, guards, and utilities |
| `@layouts/*` | `src/app/layouts/*` | Application layouts |
| `@models/*` | `src/app/models/*` | TypeScript interfaces and models |
| `@pages/*` | `src/app/pages/*` | Route-based pages |
| `@services/*` | `src/app/services/*` | Feature services |

This configuration is set up in `tsconfig.json` and works seamlessly with Angular's build system.

---

## 🛠️ Development Workflow

1. **Frontend Development**: Use `npm run dev` for hot reloading
2. **Backend Development**: API changes are automatically reflected
3. **Database Changes**: Use `npx prisma studio` to view/edit data
4. **Testing**: Run `npm test` for unit tests
5. **Building**: Use `npm run build` for production builds

---

## 📦 Available Scripts

```bash
npm run dev     # Start Angular dev server
npm run build   # Build Angular app
npm run start   # Start the production server (Express + SSR)
```

---

## 📝 Conventions & Best Practices

- **Feature-first structure:** Organize both frontend and backend code by feature for scalability and maintainability.
- **Zoneless Angular:** No `zone.js` required for modern, high-performance Angular apps.
- **TypeScript everywhere:** Use TypeScript for both frontend and backend for type safety.
- **Authentication:** Integrated with `better-auth` for secure authentication flows.
- **Prisma ORM:** Database access via Prisma, with models defined in `prisma/schema.prisma`.
- **Styling:** Tailwind CSS for rapid, modern UI development.
- **Testing:** Place unit tests alongside their respective services/components (e.g., `*.spec.ts`).
- **Environment variables:** Use `.env` for backend configuration.
- **Ready for deployment:** Production build and SSR support out of the box.

---

## 📝 Example: Todo REST API

All API endpoints are accessible at `http://localhost:4200/api` during development:

- `GET /api/todos` — List all todos
- `GET /api/todos/:id` — Get a single todo
- `POST /api/todos` — Create a new todo
- `PUT /api/todos/:id` — Update a todo
- `DELETE /api/todos/:id` — Delete a todo

---

## 🧩 Customization Guide

- Add new features in `src/api/features/`
- Define new Prisma models in `prisma/schema.prisma`
- Add Angular pages/components in `src/app/pages` or `src/app/components`
- Update styles in `tailwind.config.js` and `src/styles.css`
- Configure authentication with **better-auth**

---

## 🚀 Deployment

ngXpress is ready for deployment on platforms like:
- **Vercel**: Zero-config deployment with SSR support
- **Railway**: Easy full-stack deployment
- **Heroku**: Traditional hosting with buildpacks
- **Docker**: Containerized deployment

Use `npm run build` to create production assets and `npm run start` to run the production server.

---

## 🔧 Troubleshooting

**Database Issues:**
- Run `npx prisma generate` after schema changes
- Use `npx prisma db push` for quick schema updates

**Port Conflicts:**
- Change the port in `angular.json` if 4200 is busy
- API will automatically use the same port

**Import Issues:**
- Ensure TypeScript path mapping is working
- Restart your IDE after adding new aliases

---

## 🎯 What's Next?

1. **Explore the codebase**: Check out the example Todo API and components
2. **Add your first feature**: Create a new API endpoint and Angular service
3. **Customize the UI**: Modify Tailwind classes in components
4. **Set up authentication**: Configure better-auth for your needs
5. **Deploy**: Choose your preferred hosting platform

---

## 🤝 Contributing

PRs and issues are welcome! See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

---

## 📄 License

MIT

---

**ngXpress** — The modern Angular + Express starter you always wanted.

---

*Keywords: angular, angular-starter, angular-template, angular-fullstack, angular-universal, angular-ssr, angular-express, angular-prisma, angular-tailwind, angular-auth, fullstack, fullstack-starter, ssr, express, expressjs, prisma, tailwindcss, authentication, better-auth, typescript, nodejs, monorepo, modern-web, scalable, production-ready, nextjs-alternative, nextjs-for-angular, zoneless, angular-zoneless*

---

## 👤 Creator

Made with ❤️ by [@immohammadjaved](https://x.com/immohammadjaved).  
Follow me for updates, tips, and more Angular/Node content!

---

Commit message:

docs(readme): Update development notice

README.md, after:

# ngXpress: The Full-Stack Angular Starter Kit (SSR, Zoneless, Express 5, Prisma, better-auth, Tailwind CSS 4)

> **🚧 Development Notice**  
> This template/starter kit is currently **under active development** with major changes and improvements coming. We will launch **officially next week** with enhanced features, better documentation, and production-ready examples.  
>   
> **⭐ Star this repository** to get notified when we launch and receive updates about new features and improvements!

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/github/package-json/v/angularcafe/ngxpress)](./package.json)
[![Angular](https://img.shields.io/badge/Angular-20-red.svg)](https://angular.dev/)
[![Express.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Express.js-5.1+-green.svg)](https://expressjs.com/)
[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.0+-blue.svg)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](LICENSE)


![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/angularcafe/ngxpress)
![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/angularcafe/ngxpress)
![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/angularcafe/ngxpress)
![GitHub pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/angularcafe/ngxpress)

Created and maintained by [@immohammadjaved](https://x.com/immohammadjaved)

Think of ngXpress as the Next.js equivalent for Angular — but without the bloat, plugins, or learning curve. Just Angular + Express, the way it should be. ngXpress is a modern Angular 20 + Express 5 starter with SSR, zoneless execution, Prisma ORM, better-auth for authentication, and Tailwind CSS for styling. Build scalable, maintainable full-stack apps with zero boilerplate.

<p align="center">
  <img src="./social-preview.png" alt="ngXpress" width="900"/>
</p>
<p align="center"><i>ngXpress: Modern Angular + Express full-stack starter in action</i></p>

---

## 🚀 What is ngXpress?

ngXpress is a full-stack Angular starter kit designed to give you a seamless, modern development experience. It brings together the best of Angular 20, Express 5, zoneless execution, Prisma ORM, better-auth for authentication, and Tailwind CSS for styling—all in one place. 

With ngXpress, you get:
- A feature-first, modular backend structure for rapid API development
- Out-of-the-box SSR for SEO and performance
- A zoneless Angular setup for maximum speed and simplicity
- Built-in authentication and beautiful, responsive UI with Tailwind CSS
- A codebase that’s easy to extend, maintain, and deploy

Whether you’re building a prototype or a production app, ngXpress gives you the tools and patterns you need—without the overhead or complexity of other frameworks.

---

## ✨ Features

- **Angular 20** with SSR, signals, and standalone components
- **Express 5** REST API, modular by feature
- **Prisma ORM** (SQLite by default, easy to switch)
- **Zoneless**: No zone.js required — enjoy modern, high-performance Angular
- **Authentication-ready** with **better-auth**
- **Tailwind CSS** for modern, responsive UI
- **TypeScript everywhere**
- **Global error handling**
- **Feature-first folder structure**
- **Ready for deployment**

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

**Frontend:** Angular 20 (zoneless), TypeScript, **Tailwind CSS**  
**Backend:** Express 5, Prisma ORM, Node.js, **better-auth**  
**Dev Tools:** Angular CLI, ESLint, Prettier

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

1. **Create your project from this template**
   - Click the green “Use this template” button on GitHub
   - Choose your repo name and create your new project

2. **Clone your new repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/YOUR_REPO_NAME.git
   cd YOUR_REPO_NAME
   ```

3. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

4. **Set up the database**
   ```bash
   npx prisma migrate dev --name init
   ```

5. **Start the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

6. **Open your app**
   - Visit [http://localhost:4200](http://localhost:4200) in your browser
   - API endpoints are available at [http://localhost:4200/api](http://localhost:4200/api)

---

**Tip:**  
- Update the repo URL in step 2 to use your new repo name.  
- This repo is a template. Click 'Use this template' to start your own project instantly!
- The API is served from the same port as your Angular app, making development seamless.

---

## 🏗️ File Structure

### Frontend (Angular)
```
src/app/
  pages/         # Route-based pages (admin, not-found, home, auth)
  components/    # Reusable UI components (admin-sidebar, admin-header, footer, header, pricing, hero, features, faq)
  services/      # Feature services (todos.service.ts)
  models/        # TypeScript interfaces and models (auth.model.ts)
  core/
    guards/      # Route guards (guest.guard.ts, admin.guard.ts)
    services/    # Core services (api.service.ts)
  layouts/       # App layouts
  app.component.ts
  app.routes.ts
  ...
```

### Backend/API (Express)
```
src/api/
  features/
    todos/         # Example feature: Todo REST API (Prisma-powered)
      todos.controller.ts
      todos.routes.ts
  lib/             # Shared backend utilities (Prisma client, auth, etc.)
    prisma.ts
    auth.ts        # better-auth integration
  middlewares/     # Express middlewares (currently empty)
  utils/           # Utility functions (currently empty)
  api.ts           # Main API router
```

---

## 🔗 Import Aliases

ngXpress includes pre-configured TypeScript path mapping for clean, maintainable imports. Instead of relative paths, use these aliases:

```typescript
// ❌ Relative imports (hard to maintain)
import { TodoService } from '../../../services/todo.service';
import { AuthGuard } from '../../core/guards/auth.guard';

// ✅ Alias imports (clean and maintainable)
import { TodoService } from '@services/todo.service';
import { AuthGuard } from '@core/guards/auth.guard';
```

### Available Aliases

| Alias | Path | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `@components/*` | `src/app/components/*` | Reusable UI components |
| `@core/*` | `src/app/core/*` | Core services, guards, and utilities |
| `@layouts/*` | `src/app/layouts/*` | Application layouts |
| `@models/*` | `src/app/models/*` | TypeScript interfaces and models |
| `@pages/*` | `src/app/pages/*` | Route-based pages |
| `@services/*` | `src/app/services/*` | Feature services |

This configuration is set up in `tsconfig.json` and works seamlessly with Angular's build system.

---

## 🛠️ Development Workflow

1. **Frontend Development**: Use `npm run dev` for hot reloading
2. **Backend Development**: API changes are automatically reflected
3. **Database Changes**: Use `npx prisma studio` to view/edit data
4. **Testing**: Run `npm test` for unit tests
5. **Building**: Use `npm run build` for production builds

---

## 📦 Available Scripts

```bash
npm run dev     # Start Angular dev server
npm run build   # Build Angular app
npm run start   # Start the production server (Express + SSR)
```

---

## 📝 Conventions & Best Practices

- **Feature-first structure:** Organize both frontend and backend code by feature for scalability and maintainability.
- **Zoneless Angular:** No `zone.js` required for modern, high-performance Angular apps.
- **TypeScript everywhere:** Use TypeScript for both frontend and backend for type safety.
- **Authentication:** Integrated with `better-auth` for secure authentication flows.
- **Prisma ORM:** Database access via Prisma, with models defined in `prisma/schema.prisma`.
- **Styling:** Tailwind CSS for rapid, modern UI development.
- **Testing:** Place unit tests alongside their respective services/components (e.g., `*.spec.ts`).
- **Environment variables:** Use `.env` for backend configuration.
- **Ready for deployment:** Production build and SSR support out of the box.

---

## 📝 Example: Todo REST API

All API endpoints are accessible at `http://localhost:4200/api` during development:

- `GET /api/todos` — List all todos
- `GET /api/todos/:id` — Get a single todo
- `POST /api/todos` — Create a new todo
- `PUT /api/todos/:id` — Update a todo
- `DELETE /api/todos/:id` — Delete a todo

---

## 🧩 Customization Guide

- Add new features in `src/api/features/`
- Define new Prisma models in `prisma/schema.prisma`
- Add Angular pages/components in `src/app/pages` or `src/app/components`
- Update styles in `tailwind.config.js` and `src/styles.css`
- Configure authentication with **better-auth**

---

## 🚀 Deployment

ngXpress is ready for deployment on platforms like:
- **Vercel**: Zero-config deployment with SSR support
- **Railway**: Easy full-stack deployment
- **Heroku**: Traditional hosting with buildpacks
- **Docker**: Containerized deployment

Use `npm run build` to create production assets and `npm run start` to run the production server.

---

## 🔧 Troubleshooting

**Database Issues:**
- Run `npx prisma generate` after schema changes
- Use `npx prisma db push` for quick schema updates

**Port Conflicts:**
- Change the port in `angular.json` if 4200 is busy
- API will automatically use the same port

**Import Issues:**
- Ensure TypeScript path mapping is working
- Restart your IDE after adding new aliases

---

## 🎯 What's Next?

1. **Explore the codebase**: Check out the example Todo API and components
2. **Add your first feature**: Create a new API endpoint and Angular service
3. **Customize the UI**: Modify Tailwind classes in components
4. **Set up authentication**: Configure better-auth for your needs
5. **Deploy**: Choose your preferred hosting platform

---

## 🤝 Contributing

PRs and issues are welcome! See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

---

## 📄 License

MIT

---

**ngXpress** — The modern Angular + Express starter you always wanted.

---

*Keywords: angular, angular-starter, angular-template, angular-fullstack, angular-universal, angular-ssr, angular-express, angular-prisma, angular-tailwind, angular-auth, fullstack, fullstack-starter, ssr, express, expressjs, prisma, tailwindcss, authentication, better-auth, typescript, nodejs, monorepo, modern-web, scalable, production-ready, nextjs-alternative, nextjs-for-angular, zoneless, angular-zoneless*

---

## 👤 Creator

Made with ❤️ by [@immohammadjaved](https://x.com/immohammadjaved).  
Follow me for updates, tips, and more Angular/Node content!

---
